README.md, before:

# lint-staged

This package is a fork of [lint-staged](https://github.com/okonet/lint-staged).
It was forked to add two things:

- The ability to lint not only staged files, but modified files as well (the output of `git status`).
- stdout logging from linters. The original package only logged to stdout when the linter process returned an exit code of 1 (lint errors present). This package logs all output, so warnings will show too.

This requires Node 6+.

## Why

Linting makes more sense when running before committing your code. By doing that you can ensure no errors are going into repository and enforce code style. But running a lint process on a whole project is slow and linting results can be irrelevant. Ultimately you only want to lint files that will be committed.

This project contains a script that will run arbitrary shell tasks with a list of staged files as an argument, filtered by a specified glob pattern.

## Related blogs posts and talks

- [Make Linting Great Again](https://medium.com/@okonetchnikov/make-linting-great-again-f3890e1ad6b8#.8qepn2b5l)
- [Running Jest Tests Before Each Git Commit](https://benmccormick.org/2017/02/26/running-jest-tests-before-each-git-commit/)
- [AgentConf: Make Linting Great Again](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-mhY7e-EsC4)

> If you've written one, please submit a PR with the link to it!

## Installation and setup

> A fast way to perform the below is to run `npx mrm @travispett/lint-staged`. It does most of the setup for you.

1.  `npm install --save-dev @travispett/lint-staged husky`
1.  Install and setup your linters just like you would do normally. Add appropriate `.eslintrc`, `.stylelintrc`, etc.
1.  Update your `package.json` like this:

```diff json
{
  "scripts": {
+   "precommit": "lint-staged"
  },
+ "lint-staged": {
+   "*.js": ["eslint --fix", "git add"]
+ }
}
```

Now change a few files, `git add` some of them to your commit and try to `git commit` them.

And this is how it looks like in action:

<p align="center">
  <img src="./screenshots/lint-staged-prettier.gif" alt="lint-staged with prettier example"
       width="640" height="432">
</p>

See [examples](#examples) and [configuration](#configuration) below.

> I recommend using [husky](https://github.com/typicode/husky) to manage git hooks but you can use any other tool.

> **NOTE:**
>
> If you're using commitizen and having following npm-script `{ commit: git-cz }`, `precommit` hook will run twice before commitizen cli and after the commit. [This buggy behaviour is introduced by husky](https://github.com/okonet/lint-staged/issues/152#issuecomment-306046520).
>
> To mitigate this rename your `commit` npm script to something non git hook namespace like, for example `{ cz: git-cz }`

## Changelog

[releases](https://github.com/okonet/lint-staged/releases)

## Command line flags

```
$ ./node_modules/.bin/lint-staged --help

  Usage: lint-staged [options]


  Options:

    -V, --version        output the version number
    -c, --config [path]  Configuration file path or package
    -d, --debug          Enable debug mode
    -h, --help           output usage information
```

- **`--config [path]`**: This can be used to manually specify the `lint-staged` config file location. However, if the specified file cannot be found, it will error out instead of performing the usual search. You may pass a npm package name for configuration also.
- **`--debug`**: Enabling the debug mode does the following:
  - `lint-staged` uses the [debug](https://github.com/visionmedia/debug) module internally to log information about staged files, commands being executed, location of binaries etc. Debug logs, which are automatically enabled by passing the flag, can also be enabled by setting the environment variable `$DEBUG` to `lint-staged*`.
  - Use the [`verbose` renderer](https://github.com/SamVerschueren/listr-verbose-renderer) for `listr`.
  - Do not pass `--silent` to npm scripts.

## Configuration

Starting with v3.1 you can now use different ways of configuring it:

- `lint-staged` object in your `package.json`
- `.lintstagedrc` file in JSON or YML format
- `lint-staged.config.js` file in JS format
- Pass a configuration file using the `--config` or `-c` flag

See [cosmiconfig](https://github.com/davidtheclark/cosmiconfig) for more details on what formats are supported.

Lint-staged supports simple and advanced config formats.

### Simple config format

Should be an object where each value is a command to run and its key is a glob pattern to use for this command. This package uses [micromatch](https://github.com/micromatch/micromatch) for glob patterns.

#### `package.json` example:

```json
{
  "lint-staged": {
    "*": "your-cmd"
  }
}
```

#### `.lintstagedrc` example

```json
{
  "*": "your-cmd"
}
```

This config will execute `your-cmd` with the list of currently staged files passed as arguments.

So, considering you did `git add file1.ext file2.ext`, lint-staged will run the following command:

`your-cmd file1.ext file2.ext`

### Advanced config format

To set options and keep lint-staged extensible, advanced format can be used. This should hold linters object in `linters` property.

## Options

- `concurrent` — _true_ — runs linters for each glob pattern simultaneously. If you don’t want this, you can set `concurrent: false`
- `chunkSize` — Max allowed chunk size based on number of files for glob pattern. This option is only applicable on Windows based systems to avoid command length limitations. See [#147](https://github.com/okonet/lint-staged/issues/147)
- `globOptions` — `{ matchBase: true, dot: true }` — [micromatch options](https://github.com/micromatch/micromatch#options) to
  customize how glob patterns match files.
- `ignore` - `['**/docs/**/*.js']` - array of glob patterns to entirely ignore from any task.
- `linters` — `Object` — keys (`String`) are glob patterns, values (`Array<String> | String`) are commands to execute.
- `subTaskConcurrency` — `1` — Controls concurrency for processing chunks generated for each linter. This option is only applicable on Windows. Execution is **not** concurrent by default(see [#225](https://github.com/okonet/lint-staged/issues/225))

## Filtering files

It is possible to run linters for certain paths only by using glob patterns. [micromatch](https://github.com/micromatch/micromatch) is used to filter the staged files according to these patterns. File patterns should be specified _relative to the `package.json` location_ (i.e. where `lint-staged` is installed).

**NOTE:** If you're using `lint-staged<5` globs have to be _relative to the git root_.

```js
{
  // .js files anywhere in the project
  "*.js": "eslint",
  // .js files anywhere in the project
  "**/*.js": "eslint",
  // .js file in the src directory
  "src/*.js": "eslint",
  // .js file anywhere within and below the src directory
  "src/**/*.js": "eslint",
}
```

When matching, `lint-staged` will do the following

- Resolve the git root automatically, no configuration needed.
- Pick the staged files which are present inside the project directory.
- Filter them using the specified glob patterns.
- Pass absolute paths to the linters as arguments.

**NOTE:** `lint-staged` will pass _absolute_ paths to the linters to avoid any confusion in case they're executed in a different working directory (i.e. when your `.git` directory isn't the same as your `package.json` directory).

Also see [How to use `lint-staged` in a multi package monorepo?](#how-to-use-lint-staged-in-a-multi-package-monorepo)

## What commands are supported?

Supported are any executables installed locally or globally via `npm` as well as any executable from your $PATH.

> Using globally installed scripts is discouraged, since lint-staged may not work for someone who doesn’t have it installed.

`lint-staged` is using [npm-which](https://github.com/timoxley/npm-which) to locate locally installed scripts. So in your `.lintstagedrc` you can write:

```json
{
  "*.js": "eslint --fix"
}
```

Pass arguments to your commands separated by space as you would do in the shell. See [examples](#examples) below.

Starting from [v2.0.0](https://github.com/okonet/lint-staged/releases/tag/2.0.0) sequences of commands are supported. Pass an array of commands instead of a single one and they will run sequentially. This is useful for running autoformatting tools like `eslint --fix` or `stylefmt` but can be used for any arbitrary sequences.

## Reformatting the code

Tools like ESLint/TSLint or stylefmt can reformat your code according to an appropriate config by running `eslint --fix`/`tslint --fix`. After the code is reformatted, we want it to be added to the same commit. This can be done using following config:

```json
{
  "*.js": ["eslint --fix", "git add"]
}
```

~~Starting from v3.1, lint-staged will stash you remaining changes (not added to the index) and restore them from stash afterwards. This allows you to create partial commits with hunks using `git add --patch`.~~ This is still [not resolved](https://github.com/okonet/lint-staged/issues/62)

## Examples

All examples assuming you’ve already set up lint-staged and husky in the `package.json`.

```json
{
  "name": "My project",
  "version": "0.1.0",
  "scripts": {
    "my-custom-script": "linter --arg1 --arg2",
    "precommit": "lint-staged"
  },
  "lint-staged": {}
}
```

_Note we don’t pass a path as an argument for the runners. This is important since lint-staged will do this for you._

### ESLint with default parameters for `*.js` and `*.jsx` running as a pre-commit hook

```json
{
  "*.{js,jsx}": "eslint"
}
```

### Automatically fix code style with `--fix` and add to commit

```json
{
  "*.js": ["eslint --fix", "git add"]
}
```

This will run `eslint --fix` and automatically add changes to the commit. Please note, that it doesn’t work well with committing hunks (`git add -p`).

### Reuse npm script

If you wish to reuse a npm script defined in your package.json:

```json
{
  "*.js": ["npm run my-custom-script --", "git add"]
}
```

The following is equivalent:

```json
{
  "*.js": ["linter --arg1 --arg2", "git add"]
}
```

### Automatically fix code style with `prettier` for javascript + flow or typescript

```json
{
  "*.{js,jsx}": ["prettier --parser flow --write", "git add"]
}
```

```json
{
  "*.{ts,tsx}": ["prettier --parser typescript --write", "git add"]
}
```

### Stylelint for CSS with defaults and for SCSS with SCSS syntax

```json
{
  "*.css": "stylelint",
  "*.scss": "stylelint --syntax=scss"
}
```

### Run PostCSS sorting, add files to commit and run Stylelint to check

```json
{
  "*.scss": ["postcss --config path/to/your/config --replace", "stylelint", "git add"]
}
```

### Minify the images and add files to commit

```json
{
  "*.{png,jpeg,jpg,gif,svg}": ["imagemin-lint-staged", "git add"]
}
```

<details>
  <summary>More about <code>imagemin-lint-staged</code></summary>

[imagemin-lint-staged](https://github.com/tomchentw/imagemin-lint-staged) is a CLI tool designed for lint-staged usage with sensible defaults.

See more on [this blog post](https://medium.com/@tomchentw/imagemin-lint-staged-in-place-minify-the-images-before-adding-to-the-git-repo-5acda0b4c57e) for benefits of this approach.

</details>

## Frequently Asked Questions

### Using with JetBrains IDEs _(WebStorm, PyCharm, IntelliJ IDEA, RubyMine, etc.)_

When using the IDE's GUI to commit changes with the `precommit` hook, you might see inconsistencies in the IDE and command line. This is [known issue](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/IDEA-135454) at JetBrains so if you want this fixed, please vote for it on YouTrack.

Until the issue is resolved in the IDE, you can use the following config to work around it:

```js
{
  "scripts": {
    "precommit": "lint-staged",
    "postcommit": "git update-index --again"
  }
}
```

_Thanks to [this comment](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/IDEA-135454#comment=27-2710654) for the fix!_

### How to use `lint-staged` in a multi package monorepo?

Starting with v5.0, `lint-staged` automatically resolves the git root **without any** additional configuration. You configure `lint-staged` as you normally would if your project root and git root were the same directory.

If you wish to use `lint-staged` in a multi package monorepo, it is recommended to install [`husky`](https://github.com/typicode/husky) in the root package.json.
[`lerna`](https://github.com/lerna/lerna) can be used to execute the `precommit` script in all sub-packages.

Example repo: [sudo-suhas/lint-staged-multi-pkg](https://github.com/sudo-suhas/lint-staged-multi-pkg).

Commit message:

Update readme with fork notes and usage

README.md, after:

# lint-staged

## Fork notes

This package is a fork of [lint-staged](https://github.com/okonet/lint-staged).
It was forked to add two things:

- The ability to lint not only staged files, but modified files as well (the output of `git status`).
- stdout logging from linters. The original package only logged to stdout when the linter process returned an exit code of 1 (lint errors present). This package logs all output, so warnings will show too.

This requires Node 6+.

My usage is installing globally and running via command line with a `.lintstagedrc` file in the current directory.

Install with:

```sh
npm i -g @travispett/lint-staged
```

Then run with:

```sh
lint-staged -c .lintstagedrc
```

Other options listed below should still work.

## Why

Linting makes more sense when running before committing your code. By doing that you can ensure no errors are going into repository and enforce code style. But running a lint process on a whole project is slow and linting results can be irrelevant. Ultimately you only want to lint files that will be committed.

This project contains a script that will run arbitrary shell tasks with a list of staged files as an argument, filtered by a specified glob pattern.

## Related blogs posts and talks

- [Make Linting Great Again](https://medium.com/@okonetchnikov/make-linting-great-again-f3890e1ad6b8#.8qepn2b5l)
- [Running Jest Tests Before Each Git Commit](https://benmccormick.org/2017/02/26/running-jest-tests-before-each-git-commit/)
- [AgentConf: Make Linting Great Again](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-mhY7e-EsC4)

> If you've written one, please submit a PR with the link to it!

## Installation and setup

> A fast way to perform the below is to run `npx mrm @travispett/lint-staged`. It does most of the setup for you.

1.  `npm install --save-dev @travispett/lint-staged husky`
1.  Install and setup your linters just like you would do normally. Add appropriate `.eslintrc`, `.stylelintrc`, etc.
1.  Update your `package.json` like this:

```diff json
{
  "scripts": {
+   "precommit": "lint-staged"
  },
+ "lint-staged": {
+   "*.js": ["eslint --fix", "git add"]
+ }
}
```

Now change a few files, `git add` some of them to your commit and try to `git commit` them.

And this is how it looks like in action:

<p align="center">
  <img src="./screenshots/lint-staged-prettier.gif" alt="lint-staged with prettier example"
       width="640" height="432">
</p>

See [examples](#examples) and [configuration](#configuration) below.

> I recommend using [husky](https://github.com/typicode/husky) to manage git hooks but you can use any other tool.

> **NOTE:**
>
> If you're using commitizen and having following npm-script `{ commit: git-cz }`, `precommit` hook will run twice before commitizen cli and after the commit. [This buggy behaviour is introduced by husky](https://github.com/okonet/lint-staged/issues/152#issuecomment-306046520).
>
> To mitigate this rename your `commit` npm script to something non git hook namespace like, for example `{ cz: git-cz }`

## Changelog

[releases](https://github.com/okonet/lint-staged/releases)

## Command line flags

```
$ ./node_modules/.bin/lint-staged --help

  Usage: lint-staged [options]


  Options:

    -V, --version        output the version number
    -c, --config [path]  Configuration file path or package
    -d, --debug          Enable debug mode
    -h, --help           output usage information
```

- **`--config [path]`**: This can be used to manually specify the `lint-staged` config file location. However, if the specified file cannot be found, it will error out instead of performing the usual search. You may pass a npm package name for configuration also.
- **`--debug`**: Enabling the debug mode does the following:
  - `lint-staged` uses the [debug](https://github.com/visionmedia/debug) module internally to log information about staged files, commands being executed, location of binaries etc. Debug logs, which are automatically enabled by passing the flag, can also be enabled by setting the environment variable `$DEBUG` to `lint-staged*`.
  - Use the [`verbose` renderer](https://github.com/SamVerschueren/listr-verbose-renderer) for `listr`.
  - Do not pass `--silent` to npm scripts.

## Configuration

Starting with v3.1 you can now use different ways of configuring it:

- `lint-staged` object in your `package.json`
- `.lintstagedrc` file in JSON or YML format
- `lint-staged.config.js` file in JS format
- Pass a configuration file using the `--config` or `-c` flag

See [cosmiconfig](https://github.com/davidtheclark/cosmiconfig) for more details on what formats are supported.

Lint-staged supports simple and advanced config formats.

### Simple config format

Should be an object where each value is a command to run and its key is a glob pattern to use for this command. This package uses [micromatch](https://github.com/micromatch/micromatch) for glob patterns.

#### `package.json` example:

```json
{
  "lint-staged": {
    "*": "your-cmd"
  }
}
```

#### `.lintstagedrc` example

```json
{
  "*": "your-cmd"
}
```

This config will execute `your-cmd` with the list of currently staged files passed as arguments.

So, considering you did `git add file1.ext file2.ext`, lint-staged will run the following command:

`your-cmd file1.ext file2.ext`

### Advanced config format

To set options and keep lint-staged extensible, advanced format can be used. This should hold linters object in `linters` property.

## Options

- `concurrent` — _true_ — runs linters for each glob pattern simultaneously. If you don’t want this, you can set `concurrent: false`
- `chunkSize` — Max allowed chunk size based on number of files for glob pattern. This option is only applicable on Windows based systems to avoid command length limitations. See [#147](https://github.com/okonet/lint-staged/issues/147)
- `globOptions` — `{ matchBase: true, dot: true }` — [micromatch options](https://github.com/micromatch/micromatch#options) to
  customize how glob patterns match files.
- `ignore` - `['**/docs/**/*.js']` - array of glob patterns to entirely ignore from any task.
- `linters` — `Object` — keys (`String`) are glob patterns, values (`Array<String> | String`) are commands to execute.
- `subTaskConcurrency` — `1` — Controls concurrency for processing chunks generated for each linter. This option is only applicable on Windows. Execution is **not** concurrent by default(see [#225](https://github.com/okonet/lint-staged/issues/225))

## Filtering files

It is possible to run linters for certain paths only by using glob patterns. [micromatch](https://github.com/micromatch/micromatch) is used to filter the staged files according to these patterns. File patterns should be specified _relative to the `package.json` location_ (i.e. where `lint-staged` is installed).

**NOTE:** If you're using `lint-staged<5` globs have to be _relative to the git root_.

```js
{
  // .js files anywhere in the project
  "*.js": "eslint",
  // .js files anywhere in the project
  "**/*.js": "eslint",
  // .js file in the src directory
  "src/*.js": "eslint",
  // .js file anywhere within and below the src directory
  "src/**/*.js": "eslint",
}
```

When matching, `lint-staged` will do the following

- Resolve the git root automatically, no configuration needed.
- Pick the staged files which are present inside the project directory.
- Filter them using the specified glob patterns.
- Pass absolute paths to the linters as arguments.

**NOTE:** `lint-staged` will pass _absolute_ paths to the linters to avoid any confusion in case they're executed in a different working directory (i.e. when your `.git` directory isn't the same as your `package.json` directory).

Also see [How to use `lint-staged` in a multi package monorepo?](#how-to-use-lint-staged-in-a-multi-package-monorepo)

## What commands are supported?

Supported are any executables installed locally or globally via `npm` as well as any executable from your $PATH.

> Using globally installed scripts is discouraged, since lint-staged may not work for someone who doesn’t have it installed.

`lint-staged` is using [npm-which](https://github.com/timoxley/npm-which) to locate locally installed scripts. So in your `.lintstagedrc` you can write:

```json
{
  "*.js": "eslint --fix"
}
```

Pass arguments to your commands separated by space as you would do in the shell. See [examples](#examples) below.

Starting from [v2.0.0](https://github.com/okonet/lint-staged/releases/tag/2.0.0) sequences of commands are supported. Pass an array of commands instead of a single one and they will run sequentially. This is useful for running autoformatting tools like `eslint --fix` or `stylefmt` but can be used for any arbitrary sequences.

## Reformatting the code

Tools like ESLint/TSLint or stylefmt can reformat your code according to an appropriate config by running `eslint --fix`/`tslint --fix`. After the code is reformatted, we want it to be added to the same commit. This can be done using following config:

```json
{
  "*.js": ["eslint --fix", "git add"]
}
```

~~Starting from v3.1, lint-staged will stash you remaining changes (not added to the index) and restore them from stash afterwards. This allows you to create partial commits with hunks using `git add --patch`.~~ This is still [not resolved](https://github.com/okonet/lint-staged/issues/62)

## Examples

All examples assuming you’ve already set up lint-staged and husky in the `package.json`.

```json
{
  "name": "My project",
  "version": "0.1.0",
  "scripts": {
    "my-custom-script": "linter --arg1 --arg2",
    "precommit": "lint-staged"
  },
  "lint-staged": {}
}
```

_Note we don’t pass a path as an argument for the runners. This is important since lint-staged will do this for you._

### ESLint with default parameters for `*.js` and `*.jsx` running as a pre-commit hook

```json
{
  "*.{js,jsx}": "eslint"
}
```

### Automatically fix code style with `--fix` and add to commit

```json
{
  "*.js": ["eslint --fix", "git add"]
}
```

This will run `eslint --fix` and automatically add changes to the commit. Please note, that it doesn’t work well with committing hunks (`git add -p`).

### Reuse npm script

If you wish to reuse a npm script defined in your package.json:

```json
{
  "*.js": ["npm run my-custom-script --", "git add"]
}
```

The following is equivalent:

```json
{
  "*.js": ["linter --arg1 --arg2", "git add"]
}
```

### Automatically fix code style with `prettier` for javascript + flow or typescript

```json
{
  "*.{js,jsx}": ["prettier --parser flow --write", "git add"]
}
```

```json
{
  "*.{ts,tsx}": ["prettier --parser typescript --write", "git add"]
}
```

### Stylelint for CSS with defaults and for SCSS with SCSS syntax

```json
{
  "*.css": "stylelint",
  "*.scss": "stylelint --syntax=scss"
}
```

### Run PostCSS sorting, add files to commit and run Stylelint to check

```json
{
  "*.scss": ["postcss --config path/to/your/config --replace", "stylelint", "git add"]
}
```

### Minify the images and add files to commit

```json
{
  "*.{png,jpeg,jpg,gif,svg}": ["imagemin-lint-staged", "git add"]
}
```

<details>
  <summary>More about <code>imagemin-lint-staged</code></summary>

[imagemin-lint-staged](https://github.com/tomchentw/imagemin-lint-staged) is a CLI tool designed for lint-staged usage with sensible defaults.

See more on [this blog post](https://medium.com/@tomchentw/imagemin-lint-staged-in-place-minify-the-images-before-adding-to-the-git-repo-5acda0b4c57e) for benefits of this approach.

</details>

## Frequently Asked Questions

### Using with JetBrains IDEs _(WebStorm, PyCharm, IntelliJ IDEA, RubyMine, etc.)_

When using the IDE's GUI to commit changes with the `precommit` hook, you might see inconsistencies in the IDE and command line. This is [known issue](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/IDEA-135454) at JetBrains so if you want this fixed, please vote for it on YouTrack.

Until the issue is resolved in the IDE, you can use the following config to work around it:

```js
{
  "scripts": {
    "precommit": "lint-staged",
    "postcommit": "git update-index --again"
  }
}
```

_Thanks to [this comment](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/IDEA-135454#comment=27-2710654) for the fix!_

### How to use `lint-staged` in a multi package monorepo?

Starting with v5.0, `lint-staged` automatically resolves the git root **without any** additional configuration. You configure `lint-staged` as you normally would if your project root and git root were the same directory.

If you wish to use `lint-staged` in a multi package monorepo, it is recommended to install [`husky`](https://github.com/typicode/husky) in the root package.json.
[`lerna`](https://github.com/lerna/lerna) can be used to execute the `precommit` script in all sub-packages.

Example repo: [sudo-suhas/lint-staged-multi-pkg](https://github.com/sudo-suhas/lint-staged-multi-pkg).
